how to compost at home 20 to 30% of what
we throw away our food scraps and yard
waste which can be and should be
composted instead making compost at home
keeps these wastes out of landfills
where they take up space and release
methane a potent greenhouse gas that
could make our current environmental
situation even worse the key to
successful composting is the balance of
Browns greens water and oxygen Browns
refers to carbon-rich matter that
includes dead leaves branches twigs Hey
and even newspapers greens are nitrogen
rich matter that includes vegetable
wastes fruit scraps grass clippings
coffee grounds and the old standby farm
animal manure from herbivores to harvest
black gold from these wastes you need to
nurture them with water and air compost
microbes need the right amount of water
in order to thrive too much water
reduces air flow prevents heating and
makes the pile smell too little water
slows down decomposition and the heating
of waste materials airflow is important
because the bacteria that decompose
organic matter as well as other
microorganisms that make up the compost
ecosystem need to breathe compost piles
need porosity or the ability of oxygen
to move around the pile this also
reduces unpleasant odors if you are
inspired to grow a luscious garden here
are a few tips to get you started on how
to compost at home 1 assemble equipment
and ingredients after collecting organic
scraps assemble your garden tools
pitchfork water hose with a spray head
square point shovel and a water
resistant cover to keep your pile moist
and protect it from soaking rain to
choose a dry shady area near a water
source for your compost pile dig a hole
that you think is comfortable enough to
manage a three foot by three foot by
three foot hole is usually sufficient
three install a base of hay about six
inches thick to aerate your compost pit
as your compost settles the layer of hay
provides pockets of air make a layer of
Browns first and greens next larger
pieces should be chopped up or shredded
four moisten your pile by hosing it down
with chemical free water don't make it
soggy otherwise your pile will rot
instead of decompose five top your first
layer with another layer of browns and
greens in between sprinkle a thin layer
of soil once your compost pile is
established top it all with grass
clippings and green waste 6 turn your
pile regularly preferably every 2 weeks
since your waste materials will be
matted this will encourage airflow into
your mixture and speed up the decay
process 7 cover your compost with a tarp
to keep it moist when the material at
the bottom of your compost pile is rich
dark crumbly and gives off a sweet
earthy smell it is ready to use
depending on your local conditions this
can take anywhere from two months to
twelve if you don't have enough space
for backyard composting you can compost
organic materials indoors using a
special type of bin that you can buy at
a local hardware store or garden supply
shop or you can make the bin yourself
remember to always include the browns
and greens in the three-to-one ratio 3
parts browns to one part greens plus
provisions for water and air turn and
mix your pile to create proper air flow
and prevent it from matting after
tending your piles secure the lid
properly also watch what you throw in
correctly managing your indoor compost
bin will not attract pests or rodents
and it won't give off an unpleasant
smell your indoor compost can be ready
in as early as two weeks
as you can see learning how to compost
at home can be relatively painless and
even productive especially if you are
planning to grow your favorite
vegetables free from chemicals if you
have no space for backyard edible
landscape consider
vertical gardening